hello and good day this is dr. James
Johnson I am medical director of
victories loader solutions a medical
practice in Southern California
exclusively treating eye floaters using
the ophthalmic YAG laser in this episode
I would like to show some of the optics
and physics involved with treating eye
floaters and then following up with a
video of an actual treatment of somebody
who's previously had cataract surgery
and a YAG posterior capsule out of me
showing demonstrating some of the
challenges and the optics involved with
that type of treatment so let's use this
cartoon illustration to point out some
of the important and salient features of
using the YAG laser in treating floaters
in the eye the item marked a is the
opening and aperture of the AG laser the
cone-shaped profile is marked B is the
laser energy exiting that aperture C
shows the red focusing beams which I use
to very precisely focus the the tip or
the apex of the otherwise invisible
energy of B D is a contact lens used to
magnify the image stabilize the eye and
E is the apex or the focal point where
the energy is delivered it's important
to note that because of this cone-shaped
energy the laser energy can pass through
the front structures of the eyes such as
the cornea and the lens without
delivering any energy there
here's another cross-sectional view
showing essentially the same thing the
contact lens is a our red focusing beams
are noted as be that converging energy
cone and see the apex of that cone is at
E the floaters are shown as D and the
diverging and diminishing energy is
shown on the other side of that focus of
focal point as F now if you can imagine
trying to push a real or or in this case
a virtual cone through a circular
opening the bigger the opening is the
more wiggle room and flexibility you
have in treating these floaters
there are some instances where people
might have small pupils that don't
dilate very well or in the case of a
cataract surgery the implant limb
limits the opening to much smaller than
the normal pupil and if somebody has had
a capsulotomy which is a procedure done
after cataract surgery that opening can
be further reduced in the following
example will show you how some of these
features come into play what you'll be
seeing now is an actual videotape
recording of a treatment this is a
physician's left eye who had previously
had cataract surgery and sometimes after
cataract surgery that the transparent
capsule that holds the lens in place
would start to cloud over and what
you've seen it's kind of a ratty and a
little bit of an irregular opening from
that capsular opening the overlay here
shows the actual pupillary border in
blue there is a implant lens border or
outline in green and the actual capsular
opening the the sites that capsule
opening is probably around five
millimeters at the most maybe four and a
half at the smallest which significantly
reduces the size of the aperture opening
that we have to push that cone of energy
through so next would jump further back
and it will actually show the floater in
the back of the eye the red focusing
beams are at that apex of the cone and
you can see them light up on the surface
of that floater now and then that's how
I ensure that my focus is dead-on now
there is this diffuse orangish
background that's actually the retina
and it's much further back as long as
that retina is is diffused and I don't
see any detail in the retina I know that
I'm quite far away from it relatively
speaking the fortunate part about this
treatment though even though it was an
irregular and smallish opening to work
through was that primarily it was a
single isolated and relatively dense
floater which gave me a very
well-defined target and also it was
located in the anterior or front half of
the eye rather than further back so I
was still able to get the laser energy
on it and this is actually fairly dense
and
so you have to kind of keep working in
and keep working it'll just disappear
and kind of drop back down in place
again and so you just have to very
tedious Li and laborious Li go after it
again and again and again
just you'll see that with some of the
laser impact there will be some little
bubbles you'll see floating upwards this
patient will actually see little specks
little black specks falling or appear to
be falling and they're actually the gas
bubbles that are rising to the to the
roof of the eye it's kind of interesting
to watch but that is actually the
intended product of the laser we are
converting solids directly into gases
sublimating them directly in the gas is
probably carbon dioxide a little bit of
nitrogen and as they float away they'll
remain at the roof of the eye for
approximately fifteen to thirty minutes
or so and they just disappear so as I
keep working on this you'll see that
there becomes gradually less and less of
that material to work on and this
particular treatment lasted probably
about 15 to 25 minutes or so and I was
really quite successful this gentleman's
treatment was a bit of an exception to
the rule
I do like most patients to expect that
they will need more than one treatment
two or three would be very typical and
very common in order to get to the
desired effect the desired effect being
our suppose a successful treatment being
defined as getting the person to the
point where they can go about the
activities of daily living without
constantly being reminded there of their
floaters getting rid of the annoyance in
the distraction not necessarily 100% of
the material in there he returned the
next day and we agreed that we had
achieved enough to where we would leave
it alone and not treat it any further
pending any recurrence or regression but
he was really really quite happy to get
rid of that annoying distraction so in
this video we're still seeing I'm kind
of scanning around him we're doing less
and less treatment if I find some little
stragglers and little bits and pieces
I'll go after it but trying to scan
around a little bit just see if there's
any fragments left behind and compared
to what was initially quite prominently
floating around that doesn't appear that
there's much left here
I hope you found this interesting
educational and helpful if you have not
been to the website and you have a
floaters you really need to go vitreous
flutter solutions.com
and from there you can contact me with
some specifics pertaining to your eyes
if you have some significant floaters
and are looking for some information
about the possibility of getting that
treated I thank you for spending the
time watching these videos and I
appreciate the positive feedback I get
from both the videos as well as my
website have a great day